README.md, before:

## Changes from original HDI:

hsne_cmd, Instead of launching an interactive HSNE, simply export the full HSNE hierarchy to HSNE.bin in cwd.
File structure is per saveHSNE() method in hierachical_sne_inl.h.

use:

	./hsne_cmd ../data/MNIST_1000.bin 1000 784
	
	Saving scale:	0
	size	
	... transition matrix ...	
	Saving scale:	1
		size:	238
		... transition matrix ...
		... landmarks to original data ...
		... landmarks to previous scale ...
		... landmark weights ...
		... previous scale to current scale landmarks ...
		... area of influence ...
	Saving scale:	2
		size:	29
		... transition matrix ...
		... landmarks to original data ...
		... landmarks to previous scale ...
		... landmark weights ...
		... previous scale to current scale landmarks ...
		... area of influence ...
	

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/100361974.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/100361974)


# ![High Dimensional Inspector](./images/logo.png)
HDI is a library for the scalable analysis of large and high-dimensional data.
It contains scalable manifold-learning algorithms, visualizations and visual-analytics frameworks.
HDI is implemented in C++, OpenGL and JavaScript.
It is developed within a joint collaboration between the [Computer Graphics & Visualization](https://graphics.tudelft.nl/) group at the [Delft University of Technology](https://www.tudelft.nl) and the [Division of Image Processing (LKEB)](https://www.lumc.nl/org/radiologie/research/LKEB/) at the [Leiden Medical Center](https://www.lumc.nl/).

## Authors
- [Nicola Pezzotti](http://nicola17.github.io/) initiated the HDI project, developed the A-tSNE and HSNE algorithms and implemented most of the visualizations and frameworks.
- [Thomas Höllt](https://www.thomashollt.com/) ported the library to MacOS.

## Used
HDI is used in the following projects:
- [Cytosplore](https://www.cytosplore.org/): interactive system for understanding how the immune system works
- [Brainscope](http://www.brainscope.nl/brainscope): web portal for fast,
interactive visual exploration of the [Allen Atlases](http://www.brain-map.org/) of the adult and developing human brain
transcriptome
- [DeepEyes](https://graphics.tudelft.nl/Publications-new/2018/PHVLEV18/): progressive analytics system for designing deep neural networks

## Reference
Reference to cite when you use HDI in a research paper:

```
@inproceedings{Pezzotti2016HSNE,
  title={Hierarchical stochastic neighbor embedding},
  author={Pezzotti, Nicola and H{\"o}llt, Thomas and Lelieveldt, Boudewijn PF and Eisemann, Elmar and Vilanova, Anna},
  journal={Computer Graphics Forum},
  volume={35},
  number={3},
  pages={21--30},
  year={2016}
}
@article{Pezzotti2017AtSNE,
  title={Approximated and user steerable tsne for progressive visual analytics},
  author={Pezzotti, Nicola and Lelieveldt, Boudewijn PF and van der Maaten, Laurens and H{\"o}llt, Thomas and Eisemann, Elmar and Vilanova, Anna},
  journal={IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics},
  volume={23},
  number={7},
  pages={1739--1752},
  year={2017}
}
```

## Building
On Ubuntu 16.04 you can build and install HDI by running the following commands

```bash
./scripts/install-dependencies.sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
make -j 8
sudo make install
```

## Testing
A test-driven-development framework is implemented using [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2).

To test the library you can run the test program in the tdd folder
```bash
./applications/tdd/tdd
```

Test for the visualization suit are located in the application/visual_tests folder. Here's a couple of applications that are worth checking:
```bash
./applications/visual_tests/tsne_line
./applications/visual_tests/data_viewers
./applications/visual_tests/linechart_view_test
```

## Approximated-tSNE (Without Progressive Visual Analytics)
You can run the Approximated-tSNE algorithm using the command line tool located
in ./applications/command_line_tools

Information on the arguments and options is available by calling the application with *-h*
```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/atsne_cmd -h
```

atsne_cmd requires 4 arguments:
- path/to/data: row-major orderer binary data (4Bytes floating point)
- path/to/output
- number of data points
- number of dimensions

You can test the A-tSNE application on a subset of the MNIST that is available in the *data* folder.

```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/atsne_cmd ../data/MNIST_1000.bin output.bin 1000 784
```

... and then check the output by using a simple viewer for the embedding.
```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/simple_embedding_viewer output.bin
```

With this two simple programs you must already have quite a good idea on how to
use HDI for dimensionality reduction and for visualizing the results.

## Approximated-tSNE (With Progressive Visual Analytics)
ToDo

## Hierarchical-SNE
ToDo

Commit message:

Update readme to include binary conversion

README.md, after:

## Changes from original HDI:

hsne_cmd, Instead of launching an interactive HSNE, simply export the full HSNE hierarchy to HSNE.bin in cwd.
File structure is per saveHSNE() method in hierachical_sne_inl.h.

Input is a csv file without headers or class labels. Hsne_cmd input first needs to be converted to a binary file.

use:

	.data_conversion/csv_2_bin ../data/MNIST_1000.csv MNIST_1000.bin
	#rows:	1000
		columns:	784
		#rows:	100


	./hsne_cmd ../data/MNIST_1000.bin 1000 784
	
	Saving scale:	0
	size	
	... transition matrix ...	
	Saving scale:	1
		size:	238
		... transition matrix ...
		... landmarks to original data ...
		... landmarks to previous scale ...
		... landmark weights ...
		... previous scale to current scale landmarks ...
		... area of influence ...
	Saving scale:	2
		size:	29
		... transition matrix ...
		... landmarks to original data ...
		... landmarks to previous scale ...
		... landmark weights ...
		... previous scale to current scale landmarks ...
		... area of influence ...
	

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/100361974.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/100361974)


# ![High Dimensional Inspector](./images/logo.png)
HDI is a library for the scalable analysis of large and high-dimensional data.
It contains scalable manifold-learning algorithms, visualizations and visual-analytics frameworks.
HDI is implemented in C++, OpenGL and JavaScript.
It is developed within a joint collaboration between the [Computer Graphics & Visualization](https://graphics.tudelft.nl/) group at the [Delft University of Technology](https://www.tudelft.nl) and the [Division of Image Processing (LKEB)](https://www.lumc.nl/org/radiologie/research/LKEB/) at the [Leiden Medical Center](https://www.lumc.nl/).

## Authors
- [Nicola Pezzotti](http://nicola17.github.io/) initiated the HDI project, developed the A-tSNE and HSNE algorithms and implemented most of the visualizations and frameworks.
- [Thomas Höllt](https://www.thomashollt.com/) ported the library to MacOS.

## Used
HDI is used in the following projects:
- [Cytosplore](https://www.cytosplore.org/): interactive system for understanding how the immune system works
- [Brainscope](http://www.brainscope.nl/brainscope): web portal for fast,
interactive visual exploration of the [Allen Atlases](http://www.brain-map.org/) of the adult and developing human brain
transcriptome
- [DeepEyes](https://graphics.tudelft.nl/Publications-new/2018/PHVLEV18/): progressive analytics system for designing deep neural networks

## Reference
Reference to cite when you use HDI in a research paper:

```
@inproceedings{Pezzotti2016HSNE,
  title={Hierarchical stochastic neighbor embedding},
  author={Pezzotti, Nicola and H{\"o}llt, Thomas and Lelieveldt, Boudewijn PF and Eisemann, Elmar and Vilanova, Anna},
  journal={Computer Graphics Forum},
  volume={35},
  number={3},
  pages={21--30},
  year={2016}
}
@article{Pezzotti2017AtSNE,
  title={Approximated and user steerable tsne for progressive visual analytics},
  author={Pezzotti, Nicola and Lelieveldt, Boudewijn PF and van der Maaten, Laurens and H{\"o}llt, Thomas and Eisemann, Elmar and Vilanova, Anna},
  journal={IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics},
  volume={23},
  number={7},
  pages={1739--1752},
  year={2017}
}
```

## Building
On Ubuntu 16.04 you can build and install HDI by running the following commands

```bash
./scripts/install-dependencies.sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake  -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
make -j 8
sudo make install
```

## Testing
A test-driven-development framework is implemented using [Catch2](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2).

To test the library you can run the test program in the tdd folder
```bash
./applications/tdd/tdd
```

Test for the visualization suit are located in the application/visual_tests folder. Here's a couple of applications that are worth checking:
```bash
./applications/visual_tests/tsne_line
./applications/visual_tests/data_viewers
./applications/visual_tests/linechart_view_test
```

## Approximated-tSNE (Without Progressive Visual Analytics)
You can run the Approximated-tSNE algorithm using the command line tool located
in ./applications/command_line_tools

Information on the arguments and options is available by calling the application with *-h*
```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/atsne_cmd -h
```

atsne_cmd requires 4 arguments:
- path/to/data: row-major orderer binary data (4Bytes floating point)
- path/to/output
- number of data points
- number of dimensions

You can test the A-tSNE application on a subset of the MNIST that is available in the *data* folder.

```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/atsne_cmd ../data/MNIST_1000.bin output.bin 1000 784
```

... and then check the output by using a simple viewer for the embedding.
```bash
./applications/command_line_tools/simple_embedding_viewer output.bin
```

With this two simple programs you must already have quite a good idea on how to
use HDI for dimensionality reduction and for visualizing the results.

## Approximated-tSNE (With Progressive Visual Analytics)
ToDo

## Hierarchical-SNE
ToDo
